There I am again, Bob, an expert in the secrecy of news. Learning about Symmetric Encryption is a great way to get into cryptography. Perhaps you have already learned from KRYPTOGRAPHY what encryption is and what it needs, namely a cryptographic algorithm and a protocol. In this way, a text can be changed and made incomprehensible in a controlled process.
So that Eva can not read our messages, even if she knows how the encryption works, we need a key. With symmetric encryption, Alice and I have the same key.
[Graphics]
Let's imagine, the message is in a box that has a lock. Both Alice and myself can use our key to open the box. But if Eva gets the crate in her hands, she is closed and illegible. Exactly according to this principle, all Symmetric Encryption functions.
But how does it work without a box? We replace the crate by the algorithm, a mathematical function! We can imagine a bit like a machine. In this machine one can introduce two string strings, the plaintext M and the key K. Back one gets then the secret text C. Mathematically one writes the thus:
Ek (m) = C
Here, E is the machine, that is, the cryptographic method, which is in the parenthesis of the "input" and as a result of the "output". Because the machine needs a key to function, we write k next to it. This is how the mathematician is doing.
The decryption also works in the same way:
Dk (C) = M
In order for the deciphering to revert to the plaintext, both functions need an important property: injectivity. This means that two different inputs in E () can not have the same result. Only then:
Dk (Ek (M)) = C
If you need explanations for all these mathematical terms, press MATHEMATICS in the margin column.
All Symmetric Encrypts work according to these rules. Nevertheless, there are many different algorithms. Some of them replace letters. This is called SUBSTITUTION, and was already used by the ancient Romans. Even more modern encryption works in this way. Instead of replacing letters you can also mix them. This is called TRANSPOSITION. This type of encryption is even older and was used in ancient Greece. You can learn more about these procedures by switching to the edge column.
